So we added our connection between users and posts and we're returning that data to the front-end,
let's now go back to the back-end and utilize this connection to deny requests for deleting or editing a
posts if they are made by a user who did not create that post.
And for that, I'm in the posts.js file here and there, we have the router put method and we get the router delete
method which I'm interested in protecting.
Let's start with the update method,
so the put route here. There we want to make one simple thing or want to do that one simple thing, we want
to ensure that only the user who created the post can edit it.
This means that when we're looking for a post and when we want to update it with updateOne, we actually
want to ensure that this only happens for posts created by that user. One convenient way of doing this
would be to simply add another argument to the condition we have here and check for the creator field
which should actually be equal to request user data user ID,
remember we have that piece of information in our request and this would only update a post which matches
our post ID but also the given creator ID and it would therefore fail if we have the right post ID
but if we're not the creator of the post. Let me show this to you.
If I save this and I go back, let me logout and login with a different user,
so not the user who created this. If I login again,
I see that post and I can still click edit because we haven't done anything on the front-end to prevent
this.
Now if I add exclamation marks and hit save post, we actually don't see the exclamation marks here,
we actually also don't get an error,
that's a problem
but indeed, the updating failed.
If I log back in with the user who did create the post and I now edit this and add one exclamation
mark here, now the exclamation mark is there because now both conditions were met and they have to be
met both to well, succeed
but the problem is that we don't give back a meaningful error.
Now let's check what the result we're getting back
if we do fail to update. For this I'll again logout and switch my user, go back to the user who did not
create that post and try this again, edit
and now let's go to the network tab and actually clear it
so that we see new outgoing network requests.
And I'll add an extra exclamation mark,
hit save post and now we get four requests, these two requests fetched the posts when we were
navigated, these two requests are related to updating. The second request is an additional options request
which is always sent back or sent by the browser to your back-end but this one is the actual put
request we sent and as you see, we got back update successful.
Now we didn't get an error,
we also saw that in the console,
there is no error here,
so we made it into the then block.
Now let's have a look at the result we got there,
maybe this gives us some idea about whether we did successfully update or not.
So I added result here and saved
and now if we try to edit this again, still with the user who's not entitled to do so,
we get the same result as before but on the server if we have a look at our server side terminal here
and there, we see this strange object,
now we see something which looks promising and modified which seems to indicate how many entries were
modified, how many results in the database.
Let's validate this assumption by logging in to the valid
user who did create this and then editing this post which of course will succeed now,
if we now go back and have a look at the server side log again, we see that here we got a log where nModified
is 1.
So this seems to be an indicator which helps us determine whether we did successfully modify a post
or not
and therefore we can use this. We can check if result nModified is greater than zero, in which case
we know we did indeed update the post
and so I will send my old response.
Else I will send a different response,
a 400 in one status code to indicate that the user is not authorized to perform this action
and here I will send back
not authorized as a message. If we now save this and I do login to the user who is not authorized
again
and now I try to edit this again,
going to edit,
adding an exclamation mark and saving this,
now we get this error and we're not handling it on the front-end,
this is something we'll have to do later
but we're getting the error and that's a great enhancement of our app actually because this means that
we are now saving this on the back-end and we're also returning a message about the success of this action
to the front-end.
Now let's add that same logic to the deletion route. There we use deleteOne and we can use the same,
the exact same way of validating that the user who is trying to delete is the right user.
We can add the creator check here in our condition and check request
user data user ID and this will therefore only delete that post if we get the right user ID for that
post.
This means that here, I can also just copy that result handling
I got in my update method. Here
I'll just replace my old response with that,
here I will say deletion successful or not authorized
in the other case and now we updated this delete method too,
let's see if it works. Let's save this, let's reload the Angular app to unbreak it
and I'm still logged in with the user who's not allowed to edit this and who is not allowed to delete
this,
so if I hit delete here, I also correctly get an error and if we reload, the posts still is there. If I
logout and switch to the user who did create that post,
I can however delete it successfully or I should at least
but it still fails,
so something's wrong here,
let's reload. Well the post is not there, that succeeded
but we still got this message,
so something seems to be different about the result we're getting here in the deletion case,
so let's have a look at this now.
For that, let's simply re-add a console log statement here and let's see what the result is for a successful
deletion. Here
if I now go to new post and quickly create a new post so that I can delete it, if I do that and then
pick delete
here, we get that error
and on the back-end in the terminal of the server, we see there simply is no modified field and that
makes sense.
We're not modifying this result, we're deleting it right.
So we can just take the n value which was also present for updating by the way, so you could take it
there too.
Let's just take n here and check if that is greater than zero
because it seems to indicate whether this was successful or not.
So now if we save this and I reload, the post of course is gone,
now let's add a new post real quick and let's not immediately delete it,
instead I'll first go into switch the user to see that it does fail for the other user because this
is not the user who created the post. There if I click delete,
I still get that error and if I reload the app, post still is there
and now if I switch to the user who did create that post and I click delete,
it does the work without an error.
So now we get the deletion in place too.